An Analytical Method for Multi-Asset Option Pricing Based on a Single-Factor ModelNo Access, Letian Ye, Securities with payoffs determined by multiple correlated stochastic factors present some of the hardest valuation problems in derivatives. Except for rare cases in which a closed-form solution is available, the “curse of dimensionality” causes serious problems for Monte Carlo simulation and other numerical methods as the number of assets, N, grows. This article presents an approach that can simplify such problems enormously with relatively little lost in terms of accuracy for common cases. The idea is quite simple: Model each variable’s risk as being composed of exposure to a single common factor (e.g., the market portfolio) plus an independent idiosyncratic shock. With this assumption, the distribution of the payoff then becomes a realization of the single common factor, which can be easily simulated numerically, plus a draw from the composite density for the sum of the independent idiosyncratic shocks. The article illustrates the approach for pricing rainbow options and the nth-best-of-N contract. The result is highly accurate and almost instantaneous.

Comonotonic Monte Carlo Simulation and Its Applications in Option Pricing and Quantification of RiskNo Access, Alain Chateauneuf, For many kinds of derivative valuation problems, especially those that try for greater realism using return processes that are more consistent with empirical evidence, Monte Carlo simulation is the only feasible solution technique. Among the well-known strategies to improve its efficiency, the use of a well-chosen control variate is often very effective. But a good selection can make a lot of difference. This article explains how the mathematical concept of comonotonicity can be applied as a new way to create a control variate. A remarkable improvement in performance can be achieved using the comonotonic upper bound as the control variate. The article illustrates the power of Comonotonic Monte Carlo simulation in estimating tail value at risk and pricing arithmetic Asian options.
Mutual Funds, Price Pressure, and Index OptionsNo Access, Thorsten Lehnert, As research has begun to focus on the fact of less-than-infinite liquidity in real-world financial markets, evidence has begun to accumulate on price effects caused by large trades. Cash inflows into index-based mutual funds can be large and potentially highly correlated across “herding” investors, resulting in flow-induced price effects on the index stocks. In this article, Lehnert shows that mutual fund inflows, which have been shown to push prices of illiquid stocks too far at first only to be followed by predictable reversals later, also affect index options in the form of negative shocks to risk-neutral skewness. Among the interesting results are that inflows are more powerful than outflows; only the unexpected portion of the flow seems to matter; and the effect is largely limited to short maturity options. The article goes on to consider risk-neutral volatility and kurtosis, finding behavior largely consistent with the fund flow hypothesis.
On the Estimation of the SABR Model’s Beta Parameter: The Role of Hedging in Determining the Beta ParameterNo Access, Mengfei Zhang, The stochastic alpha-beta-rho (SABR) model has become one of the most popular models for real-world interest rate behavior, but not all of its four parameters are equally easy to estimate. The elasticity of the variance beta parameter determines the shape of the returns density, with a beta of 0 implying normal shocks; 1 implying lognormal shocks; and a value between 0 and 1 implying a constant elasticity of variance process. But fitting the model to market returns is not easy, because the data do not discriminate well among different beta values even though the differences are important for hedge design. This article proposes optimizing on a different metric for goodness of fit: hedge performance. Minimizing hedging error as a function of beta in addition to minimizing the error in calibrating to the market volatility smile substantially improves the ability to pin down the beta value. The method can be tuned to reflect the user’s desired trade-off between hedging versus pricing accuracy.
Option-Implied Volatility Measures and Stock Return PredictabilityNo Access,Mark B. Shackleton, Do changes in implied volatilities (IVs) or differences among options at different spots on the volatility surface contain predictive information for future returns? The question has been asked repeatedly—and often answered in the affirmative for specific measures—but questions remain. In this article, the authors perform a comparison test on six return predictors that are all computed as differences among implied and realized volatilities and that have been proposed in the literature. The authors consider more measures, more maturities, and longer samples than earlier articles, and they include a variety of appropriate control variables. They find that the difference between at-the-money (ATM) call and put IV (CPIV) and out-of-the-money (OTM) put IV minus ATM call IV are both highly significant at the individual stock level, while a long–short portfolio strategy based on realized minus implied volatility does very well. The alternative volatility combinations are substantially less effective as return predictors.